https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBdfcR-8hEY&list=PL8E76EB832BA66E75

@01.Consequentialist Moral Principles [Jeremy Bentham (Londres 1748-1832)/John Stuart Mill (Londres 1806-1873)]
  + Utilitarianism ("The highest principle of morality (whether personal|political) is to maximize the general welfare or the collecitve happines")
    The Right/Just thing to do is to maximize utility.
    Utility: The balance of Pleasure over Pain|Happines over Suffering
    
   Remember -> The case of the Queen verses Dudley and Stephen
    QUESTIONS RAISED
    1.Do we have certain fundamental rights?
    2.Does a fair procedure justify any result?
    3.What is the moral work of consent?

@02.PUTTING A TAG PRICE ON LIFE
  .Phillip Morris Tobacco Company -> Czech Republic
  .Ford Pinto
  .Using Cell Phones while driving
  .Roma Colliseum seen Christians
  .Edward Thorndike (1874-1949)
  .John Stuart Mill

  OBJECTIONS TO UTILITARISM
	1.Fails to respect individual/minority rights
	2.Not possible to aggregate all values and preferences
	  - Using a single measure like $$
	  - Isn't there a distinction between higher and lower pleasures (Simpson/Shakespeare/FearFactor)

	Phillip Morris Tobacco company -> Czech Republic
	   	COSTS			 	BENEFITS
	   	Increased Health	.Tax Revenue from Cigarette Sales
	   	Care Costs               (from early deaths)
	                        	.Health Care Savings
	    				.Pension Savings
					.Savings in Housing Costs

		- Net gain in citizens smoke:    ->$ 147.00 million
		- Savings from premature deaths: ->$1227.00 per person

		¿What about the value of the life?
		-> Some of those cost benefits include a value to life. 

	Ford Pinto. case due to the fuel tank was at the back of the car and in rear collissions the fuel tank exploded and some people were killed and some severly injured. Victims of this injuries took Ford to court to sue and in the court case it turned out  that  Ford had long since know about the vulnerable fuel tank and had done a cost-benefit analysys to determine whether it would be worth it to put in a special shield that would protect the fuel tank and prevent it from exploding.

		COSTS 					BENEFITS
		$11 per parts			 180 deaths    x $   200,00
		x 12.5 million cars     +180 injuries  x $67.000,00
					 			+2000 vehicles x $   700,00
		=137 million			=$49.5 million
		(to improve safety)

	Edward Thorndike (1874-1949)
	    1930's a psycologist tries to define a value to all goods/values/human concerns into a single uniform measure and he did this by conducting a survey of the young recipients of relief, and he asked them, he gave them a list of unpleasant experiences and ask them:
	    ¿How much would you have to be paid to undergo the following experiences? and he kept track
	    . Pull a tooth   - $  4.500
	    . to have one little toe cut off
	    . Eat a worm     - $100.000
	    . Live in kansas - $300.000
	    . to choke a straight cat with your bare hands

	John Stuart Mill (1806-1873)
	  "The sole evidence it is possible to produce that anything is desirable is that people actually do desire it".
	  "Of two pleasures, if there be one to which all or almost all who have experience of both give a decided preference, irrespective of any feeling of moral obligation to prefer it, then that is the more desirable pleasure"
	  "While I dispute the pretensions of any theory which sets up an imaginary standard of justice not grounted on utility, I account the justice which is grounded in utility to be the chief part, and incomparably the most sacred and binding part, of all morality..."
	  "Justice is a name for certain moral requirements, which, regarded collectively, stand higher in the scale of social utility and are therefore of more paramount obligation than any others."

@03.FREE TO CHOOSE
  .Libertarianism
  .Robert Nozick   (1938-2002)
  .Milton Friedman (1912-2006)
  .John Locke      (1622-1704)

  In his book Utilitarianism John Stuart Mill tries to show that it is possible within Utilitarianism framework to distinguish between higher and lower pleasures.
	It's posible to make qualitative distinctions of worth, and we tested that idea with the Simpson/Shakespeare/FearFactor excerpts and the results of our experiment seemed to call into question Mill´s distinction, because a great many will choose Simpson but still considered Shakespeare to be the higher/worthier pleasure, well that's the dillema that confronts Mill's.
	What attempt Mill's to account for specially weighty character for individual rights and justice in chapter 5 of Utilitarianism. He wants to say that individual rights are worthy of special respect in fact he goes so far to say that justice is the most sacred part, and the most incomparably binding part of morality but the same challenge could be put to this part of Mill's defense why is Justice. Why is Justice the chief part in the most binding part of our morality? well he says because in the long run if we do justice and if we respect rights society as a whole will be better off in the long run.
	-> What if we have a case where makin an exception and violating individual rights actually will make people better off in the long run, then it's good to use people.
	-> and there's a further objection suppose the utilitarian calculus in the longn run works out as he says it will, such that respecting people's rights is a way of making everybody off in the long run. Is that the right reason/the only reason to respect people?

	1. Are there theories of the good life that can provide independent moral standards for the worth of pleasure and if so what do they look like?
	2. There are reasons for respecting individuals and not using them beyond even utility in the long run and if so what is this theory?

    LIBERTARIANISM
      Libertarianism takes individual rights seriously, it says that the foundamental individual right is the right to liberty, precisely because we are separated individual beings, we have a foundamental right to liberty and that means a right to choose freely to live our lives as we please provided we respect other people's rights.

      The Libertarian View of Gobernment
        1. NO Paternalist legislation. (helmet/seat belt)
        2. NO Morals legislation (LGTBI)
        3. NO redistribution of Income from Rich to Poor

    Robert Nozick (1938-2002)
      "Individuals have rights so strongs and far-reaching are these rights that they raise the question of what, if anything the state may do"

      Let's see Robert Nozick about the 3rd Point of Libertarian view of Gobernment.
      -> WHAT MAKES INCOME DISTRIBUTION JUST?
        1. Justice in Acquisition (initial holdings)
        2. Justice in Transfer (fee market)

      Nozick Argument Against Taxation
        Taxation = Taking Earnings
        Taking Earnings = Forced Labor
        Forced Labor = Slavery
          => Violates  Principle of Self-Possession

    Milton Friedman (1912-2006)
      He points out that many of the functions that we take for granted as properly belonging to gobernment, don't they are paternalist.
      -> "Social security"

      The Libertarian's argument against redistribution begin with this fundamental idea that we own ourselves.

      OBJECTIONS TO LIBERTARIANISM
      1.The Poor need the money more
      2.Taxation by consent of the governed  is not coerced
      3.The successful owe a debt to society
      4.Wealth depends partly on luck so it isn't deserved

    John Locke (1622-1704)
  
@04.THIS LAND IS MY LAND
  .State of Nature
  .John Locke 'Statements' (1632-1704)
  .Libertarians vs Locke
  .Consent

    STATE OF NATURE
      John Locke believes that there are certain fundamental individual rights thar are so important that no governament can override.
      He believes that those fundamental rights include a natural right to life, liberty and property and furthermore he argues that the right to property is not just the creation of government or law, the right to property is a natural right in the sense that it is pre-political.
      He says that the state of nature is the state of liberty, human beings are free and equal beings, there is no natural hierarchy.
      He says that there is a difference between a state of liberty and a state of license, and it's the law of nature, this law of nature constraint what we can do even though we're free, even though we're in the state of nature.
      What are those constraints?
      . The natural rights we have, we can't give up (to take 'others|my own' life/liberty/property)
    
    JOHN LOCKE 'Statements'
      Where this constrainsts come from?
      -> Lockes give's two answers:
        1. We're the creatures of God, God has a bigger property right in us a prior priority right.
          
          ."For men, being all the workmanship of one omnipotent, and infinitely wise maker, they are his property, whose workmanship they are, made to last during his, not one another's pleasure"

        2.Reason:
        If we properly reflects on what it means to be free, we will be lead to the conclusion that freedom can't just be a matter of doing whatever we want.

          ."The state of nature has a law of nature to govern it which obliges everyone: and reason, which is that law, teaches all mankind, who will but consult it, that beign all equal and independent no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty of possesions".

        -> This leads to a puzzling paradoxical feature of Lockes and it's the idea that our natural rights are unalienable (nontransferable).

          Life/Liberty: I can't take my own life I can't sell myself into slavery anymore than I can teke somebody else's life or take someone else as a slave by force. 

          Property: Lockes say's it can arise even before there is any government.

            ."...every man has a property in his own person. This nobody has any right to but himself. The labor of his body, and the work of his hands, we may say, are properly his."

          -> So he moves as the libertarians later would move from the idea that we own ourselves, that we have property in our persons, to the closely connected idea that we own our own labor, and for that to the further claim that whatever we mix our labor with that is unowned becomes our property.

            ."Whatsoever then he removes out of the state that nature has provided, and left it in, he has mixed his labor with, and joined to it something that is his own, and thereby makes it his property."

            ."For this labor being the unquestionable property of the laborer, no man but he can have a right to what that is once joined to, at least where there is enough, and as good left in common for others"

          -> And not only our selves and our labor, but also the land (earth)

            ."As much land as a man tills, plants improves, 
            cultivates and can use the product of, so much is his property. He by his labor does, as it were, enclose it from the common."

    .LIBERTARIANS vs LOCKE
      So the idea that rights are unalinable seems to distance John Locke from the Libertarians.
      Libertarians say:
      "We have an absolute property rate in our selves and therefore we can do with ourselves whatever we want"
      -> Locke is not a sturdy ally for that view infact he says if you take natural rights seriously you'll be led to the idea that there are certain constrainsts on what we can do with our natural rights, constraints given either by God or by reason reflecting on what it means really to be free and be really to be free means recognising that our rights are unalianable.

      So here's the difference between Locke and the Libertarians but when it comes to the Locke's account of private property it begins to look again like a pretty good "ally", 

    .CONSENT
      Consent is an obvious, familiar idea in moral and political philosophy, Locke says that legitimate government is government founed on consent and who nowadays would disagree with him? Sometimes when ideas of political philosophies are as familiar as Locke's ideas about consent it's hard to make sense of them or at least to find them very interesting, but there are some puzzles some strange features of Locke's account of consent as the basis of legitimate government.

      Everyone is an enforcer or what Locke calls the executor of the state of Nature.
       -> If someone violates the law of nature, he's an aggressor, he's beyond reason and you can punish him. 'Kill him'
       So here comes the government under consent

        "One may destroy a man who makes war upon him... for the same reason that he may kill a worlf or a lion; because such men ... have no other rule, but that of force and violence, and so may be treated as beasts of prey, those dangerous and noxious creatures, that will be sure to destroy him, whenever he falls into their power." John Locke

      => So, what starts out as a seemingly bening state of nature where everyone is free and yet where there is a law, and the law respects people's rights, and those rights are so powerful that they're unalienable. What starts out looking very bening, once you look closer, is pretty fierce and filled with violence, and that's why people want to leave. 
      How do they leave? Well, here is where consent comes in. The only way to escape from the state of nature is to undertake an act of consent where you agree to give up the enforcement power and to create a government or a community where there will be a legislature to make law, and where everyone agrees in advance to abide by whatever the majority decides, the big question is ¿What can the majority decide? Now, here it gets tricky for Locke because you remember alongside the whole story about consent and majority rule, there are these natural rights, the law of nature, these unalienable rights, and you remember, they don't disappear when people join together to create a civil society, so even once the majority is in charge, the majority can't violate your inalienable rights, can't violate your fundamental right to life, liberty and property, so here's the puzzle:
        .How much power does the majority have?
        .How limited is the government created by consent?
      
        "The supreme power cannot take from any man any part of his property without his own consent." John Locke

        "For the preservation of property beign the end of government and that for which men enter into society, it necessarily supposes and requires that people should have property." John Locke

      => Here's whats elusive:
      On one hand it says government can't take your property without your consent, he is clear about that. (Law of nature) But then it seems that property, what counts as property is not natural but conventional defined by the government

        "Men therefore in society having property, they have such a right to the goods, which by the law of community are theirs ..." John Locke

        "Hence it is a mistake to think, that the supreme or legislative power... can do what it will, and dispose of the estates of the subject arbitraily, or take any part of them at pleasure" John Locke

        "One may destroy a man who makes war upon him ... for the same reason that he may kill a wolf or a lion; because such men... have no other rule, but that force and violence, and so may be treated as beasts of prey, those dangerous and noxious creatures, that will be sure to destroy him, whenever he falls into their power."

        "...Government cannot be supported without great charge, and it is fit every one who enjoys his share of the protection, should pay out of his estate his proportion for the mainenance of it. But still it must be with his own consent, i.e. the consent of the majority, giving it either by themselves or their representatives chosen by them".

      => So what's Locke saying:
      Property is natural in one sense but conventional in another.
      It's natural in the sense that we have fundamental unalienable rights  that there be property that the institution of property exist and be respected by the government.

Categorically Moral Principles